Shigeru Miyamoto has been quoted as saying
he wasn’t a big fan of F-Zero GX, the GameCube
classic many consider the best F-Zero release
to date.
Whether that has anything to do with the series’
absence on Wii...who knows?
All I do know is that if you’re looking
for an F-Zero game on Wii, this is probably
your best bet.
It’s a video game based on the 2008 film
adaptation of Speed Racer.
You’re probably expecting it to suck, too.
But lo and behold, this is one of the better
movie games you’ll ever play in your life.
Kinda takes away the sting of not having a
new F-Zero game since the indictment of Martha
Stewart...only not really.
Go Speed Racer!
Released in 2008 by Warner Bros.
Interactive, Speed Racer: The Video Game was
developed by a New Zealand company without
much of a track record.
That makes the quality of this game even more
surprising.
Yeah, it’s a blatant F-Zero ripoff.
So much so that if he could, Captain Falcon
would file a lawsuit faster than you could
say, “Falcon Punch!”
But honestly, who cares?
I mean, to hell with originality.
For a movie game, this is as good as it gets.
Speed Racer is a racer with more than a dozen
vehicles flying by at speeds so fast, they
boggle the imagination of everyone except
Samurai Goroh.
Sorry for the F-Zero references, but I mean,
come on...Speed Racer really is F-Zero without
the F-Zero.
That’s a good thing, because it fills a
glaring hole in the Wii’s library.
Aside from its quality, I think the most surprising
thing about Speed Racer is its controls...and
the fact that they aren’t terrible.
The game was released in 2008, back when developers
forced motion into their games and didn’t
even consider adding an alternative.
So you play with tilt...and listen, I despite
tilt steering.
But it’s actually pretty adequate in Speed
Racer, and that’s because the tracks are
more forgiving than those in F-Zero.
They kind of lead you into the turns, so steering
is a lot smoother.
If you’re looking for differences, well...there
are Car-Fu mechanics that let you attack other
cars and earn additional points.
You can also enter a crazy alternate dimension
when you save up your boosts.
On the negative side, it’s not as pretty
or fast as GX, and the multiplayer is limited
to split-screen.
There’s not much here you haven’t seen
before, but that’s kind of the point.
Fans wanted to see this on Wii, albeit in
a different form, but never got it.
So that’s where Speed Racer fits in.
If you’re really desperate for an F-Zero-like
experience on your Wii...this is a perfectly
solid little racer.
Besides...it’s not like you have a choice,
right?